---
title: 'California Assembly District Election Meeting (ADEM) guide: January 2021'
description: 'My recommendations for ADEM delegates in Ventura County assembly districts.'
pubDate: 'Jan 15 2021'
category: 'voter-guide'
---

The ADEM elects delegates to the California Democratic Party, who control endorsements, platforms, and rules at the annual party convention.
In Ventura County (AD37, AD38, and AD44), ADEM delegates also sit on the Central Committee, which performs the same function at the county level.

Read my [op-ed in the VC Reporter](https://vcreporter.com/2021/01/power-to-speak-the-most-important-election-youve-never-heard-of-is-happening-right-now/) for more info,
as well as rationale for [my own ADEM run](http://maxforadem.com) in AD44.

If you live outside Ventura County, I recommend following endorsements from
[YIMBY Action](https://yimbyaction.org/endorsements/adem) and
[California YIMBY](https://cayimby.org/adems-2021/).
The housing issue divides California Democrats, and YIMBY is on the right side.


## Ventura County

ADEM candidates in Ventura County had two opportunities to express their policy stances in questionnaires:
from [YIMBY Action](https://datastudio.google.com/u/0/reporting/5f160a63-5ad5-4213-aa0c-62690d763eba) and
[Ventura County Citizens' Climate Lobby](https://datastudio.google.com/u/0/reporting/4f98a4d1-1f01-4c96-a189-4b9f64d1f8b3/page/1knwB) (CCL, which advocates federal carbon fee-and-dividend policy).
I am a member of both organizations and helped with both questionnaire processes and the Ventura County YIMBY
endorsement process (I recused myself from endorsements in AD44 where I'm a candidate).
[Ventura County YIMBY endorsed candidates](http://vcyimby.org/endorsements) based on their responses to the YIMBY Action questionnaire;
CCL does not endorse candidates.
I believe a number of candidates would perform well, but as a matter of principle, I'm only voting for (and suggesting voting for) candidates who completed at least one of these two candidate questionnaires.
Delegates play political roles, and their constituents deserve to know where they will stand on important issues.


### Assembly District 37

AD37 includes parts of northern Ventura County and Santa Barbara County.

* **Nicholas Begane** supports both housing and carbon fee-and-dividend.
* **Diana Sparagna** supports housing development and has put that support into action as a commissioner on the San Buenaventura (city of Ventura) Housing Authority.


### Assembly District 38

AD38 includes Simi Valley and parts of Los Angeles County.

* **Rebecca Albarran** co-leads Ventura County YIMBY, running our partnerships and having recently represented us on a panel with Supervisor Carmen Ramirez.
* **Cassandra Douglas** co-leads Ventura County YIMBY, boosting our organizing and media presence and promoting housing as a leader of Rise Simi Valley.
* **Phil Loos** is a Ventura County YIMBY member and ran for city council in Simi Valley on a pro-housing agenda.
* **Ruth Luevanos** is a Simi Valley city councilmember and strong supporter of Ventura County YIMBY.
* **Hilary Hall** calls carbon fee-and-dividend "a logical step in making much needed changes in energy in order to protect our environment."
* **Jodie Cooper** supports carbon fee-and-dividend.
* **Jane Arakawa Fowler** strongly supports housing, as well as enhancing public transportation.
* **Navroop Mann** co-founded Rise Simi Valley, which supports and amplifies YIMBY's message.
* **Kameren Chase Neal** supports housing.
* **Gracie Pekrul** supports housing.
* **Shawnee Badger** supports housing.


### Assembly District 44

AD44 runs from Thousand Oaks to Oxnard. I live here, I'm running here, and I've done more research on candidates here than any other district.
I've spoken with some other pro-housing candidates such as Josh Donner, David Pollock, and Michaela Perez,
and I generally prefer [their slate](https://linktr.ee/electprogressivelaborad44) to the competing one, which is more DSA-aligned.
However, I'm limiting my votes to candidates who submitted favorable YIMBY or CCL questionnaire responses.
This includes candidates from both slates and independents like myself.

* **Max Ghenis** is me. My website, [maxforadem.com](http://maxforadem.com) has my platform and background.
* **Rebekah Sneha Daniel** strongly supports the Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act, CCL's federal carbon fee-and-dividend legislation.
* **Martha Martinez-Bravo** strongly supports Citizens' Climate Lobby and is generally supportive of new housing, while also being open about wanting to learn more about the issue.
* **Anthony Mireles** is a union leader who supports housing.
* **Mercy Urrea** is also a union leader who supports housing.
* **Orion Tripodis** strongly supports carbon fee-and-dividend.
* **Alessandro Neri** supports housing development and carbon fee-and-dividend.
* **Henry Montalvo** chairs the Ventura County Democratic Party and generally supports policies that will increase the supply of housing.
* **Danny Chulack** didn't complete either questionnaire, but he completed the YIMBY questionnaire when he ran for Thousand Oaks City Council in November. He earned our endorsement with his strong responses, and I'm confident he'd support housing at the convention and on the Central Committee.

---

*These recommendations are my own, and do not reflect positions of organizations I'm associated with.*
